Documentation before the first release (#48)
Helioviewer-Project/python-api: docs/installation.rst

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

Installing ``hvpy``
-------------------

> If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing `mini-forge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing `miniforge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.
```

installing ``hvpy`` with pip::

    pip install -e '.[docs]'

.. note::

    This does not include `Graphviz <http://www.graphviz.org>`__. 
    If you do not install this package separately then the documentation build process will produce a very large number of lengthy warnings (which can obscure bona fide warnings) and also not generate inheritance graphs.

.. _hvpy-doc-building:

Building
^^^^^^^^

There are two ways to build the ``hvpy`` documentation. The easiest way is to
execute the following tox command (from the ``hvpy`` source directory)::

    tox -e build_docs

If you do this, you do not need to install any of the documentation dependencies
as this will be done automatically. The documentation will be built in the
``docs/_build/html`` directory, and can be read by pointing a web browser to
``docs/_build/html/index.html``.

Alternatively, you can do::

    cd docs
    make html

And the documentation will be generated in the same location. Note that
this uses the installed version of hvpy, so if you want to make sure
the current repository version is used, you will need to install it with
e.g.::

    pip install -e .[docs]

before changing to the ``docs`` directory.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This works on all platforms (Linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.

Using pip
---------

.. warning::

    Users of any conda distribution should follow the instructions for :ref:`conda_install`.

To install ``hvpy`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`__, run ::

    pip install hvpy

.. _conda_install:

Using Conda
-----------

To install ``hvpy`` using `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`__ run ::

    conda install -c conda-forge hvpy

Obtaining the Source Package
----------------------------

Source Package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The latest stable source package for ``hvpy`` can be `downloaded at pypi.org <https://pypi.org/project/hvpy>`__.

Development Repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The latest development version of ``hvpy`` can be cloned from `GitHub <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/>`__ ::

   git clone git@github.com:Helioviewer-Project/python-api.git

Building and Installing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build and install ``hvpy`` (from the root of the source tree) ::

    pip install -e .

> which installs ``hvpy`` in development mode, this then means that changes in the code are immediately reflected in the installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which installs ``hvpy`` in development mode, this means that a change in the source code is immediately reflected.
```

Building Documentation

> ----------------------

Reviewer: I am not sure this belongs at the bottom of the installation page? Maybe a new page?

Reviewer: This does feel more development focused than installation focused. I think a new page that could then be expanded to talk about running the tests.

.. note::

>     Building the documentation is in general not necessary unless you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Building the documentation is not necessary unless you are
```

    writing new documentation or do not have internet access, because

>     the latest versions of hvpy's documentation should be available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the latest versions of ``hvpy``'s documentation should be available
```

>     at `hvpy.readthedocs.io <https://hvpy.readthedocs.io/>`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    at `hvpy.readthedocs.io <https://hvpy.readthedocs.io/>`__.
```

Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Building the documentation requires the ``hvpy`` source code and some
> additional packages. The easiest way to build the documentation is to use `tox
> <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ as detailed in
> :ref:`hvpy-doc-building`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building the documentation requires the ``hvpy`` source code and some additional packages.
The easiest way to build the documentation is to use `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ as detailed in :ref:`hvpy-doc-building`.
```

Reviewer: You want to do 1 line per sentence instead of breaking up text into random length lines.

On the other hand, if you wish to call Sphinx manually to build the
documentation, you will need to make sure that dependencies are
installed. If you use conda, the easiest way to install the dependencies is
with::

    conda install -c conda-forge sphinx-book-theme sphinx-autodoc-typehints sphinx-automodapi

Without conda, you install the dependencies by specifying ``[docs]`` when
installing ``hvpy`` with pip::

>     pip install -e '.[docs]'

Reviewer: I want to make people use tox for this.

> .. Note::
>     The ``pip`` install methods above do not include `Graphviz
>     <http://www.graphviz.org>`_.  If you do not install this package separately
>     then the documentation build process will produce a very large number of
>     lengthy warnings (which can obscure bona fide warnings) and also not
>     generate inheritance graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

    This does not include `Graphviz <http://www.graphviz.org>`__. 
    If you do not install this package separately then the documentation build process will produce a very large number of lengthy warnings (which can obscure bona fide warnings) and also not generate inheritance graphs.
```

.. _hvpy-doc-building:

Building
^^^^^^^^

There are two ways to build the ``hvpy`` documentation. The easiest way is to
execute the following tox command (from the ``hvpy`` source directory)::

    tox -e build_docs

If you do this, you do not need to install any of the documentation dependencies
as this will be done automatically. The documentation will be built in the
``docs/_build/html`` directory, and can be read by pointing a web browser to
``docs/_build/html/index.html``.

Alternatively, you can do::

    cd docs
    make html

And the documentation will be generated in the same location. Note that
this uses the installed version of hvpy, so if you want to make sure
the current repository version is used, you will need to install it with
e.g.::

    pip install -e .[docs]

before changing to the ``docs`` directory.

> In the second way, LaTeX documentation can be generated by using the command::
> 
>     make latex
> 
> The LaTeX file ``hvpy.tex`` will be created in the ``docs/_build/latex``
> directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think people need to know about latex.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Reporting Issues/Requesting Features
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reporting Issues or Requesting Features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> As mentioned above, building the documentation depends on a number of Sphinx
> extensions and other packages. Since it is not always possible to know which
> package is causing issues or would need to have a new feature implemented, you
> can open an issue in the official `hvpy repository <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/issues>`__.
> However, if you wish, you can also open issues in the `helioviewer API repository <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/api/issues>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, building the documentation depends on a number of Sphinx extensions and other packages.
Since it is not always possible to know which package is causing issues or would need to have a new feature implemented, you can open an issue in the official `hvpy repository <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/issues>`__.
However, if you wish, you can also open issues in the `helioviewer API repository <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/api/issues>`__.
```

This doesn't belong at the bottom of the installation page nor do I understand the link between the documentation build and getting new features or reporting bugs.

Reviewer: I think this bit might more ideal on the landing page.

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

Installing ``hvpy``
-------------------

If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing `miniforge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.

> This works on all platforms (Linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.

Reviewer 2: Have you worked with miniforge? I'm not comfortable recommending a package I haven't used.

Reviewer: Yes, all the time.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good. It looks like I'm going to have to use it too since I'm having issues with numpy on the Mac M1 chip.

Using pip
---------

.. warning::

>     Users of any conda distribution should follow the instructions for :ref:`conda_install`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this warning is needed since there's only one step of pip install. Someone on the page would see the pip and condo sections at the same time so they shouldn't need a warning telling them to jump to their section.

To install ``hvpy`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`__, run ::

    pip install hvpy

.. _conda_install:

Using Conda
-----------

> To install ``hvpy`` using `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`__ run ::

Reviewer 2: This brings up the question on whether or not we'll be supporting Anaconda, I haven't worked with it much myself, I think this is worth bringing up on Thursday with Nabil and Jack.

Reviewer: We should be submitting a recipe to conda-forge when we have a release of 0.1 out.

    conda install -c conda-forge hvpy

Obtaining the Source Package
----------------------------

Source Package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The latest stable source package for ``hvpy`` can be `downloaded at pypi.org <https://pypi.org/project/hvpy>`__.

Development Repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The latest development version of ``hvpy`` can be cloned from `GitHub <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/>`__ ::

   git clone git@github.com:Helioviewer-Project/python-api.git

> Building and Installing

Reviewer 2: Change title to "Installing from Source" since we don't really have a build step.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build and install ``hvpy`` (from the root of the source tree) ::

>     pip install -e .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    pip install -e ".[tests,dev]"
```

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

Installing ``hvpy``
-------------------

> If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing the `mini-forge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing `mini-forge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.
```

> This works on all platforms (linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This works on all platforms (Linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.
```

Using pip
---------

.. warning::

    Users of any conda distribution should follow the instructions for :ref:`conda_install`.

To install ``hvpy`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`__, run ::

    pip install hvpy

.. _conda_install:

Using Conda
-----------

To install ``hvpy`` using `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`__ run ::

    conda install -c conda-forge hvpy

Requirements
------------

``hvpy`` has the following requirements:

- `requests <https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ >=2.27.0 or higher
- `pydantic <https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/>`_ >=1.9.1 or higher

> Obtaining the Source Packages
> -----------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtaining the Source Package
----------------------------
```

> Source Packages
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source Package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

The latest stable source package for ``hvpy`` can be `downloaded at pypi.org <https://pypi.org/project/hvpy>`__.

Development Repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The latest development version of ``hvpy`` can be cloned from `GitHub <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/>`__ ::

   git clone git@github.com:Helioviewer-Project/python-api.git

Building and Installing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build and install ``hvpy`` (from the root of the source tree) ::

    pip install -e .

which installs ``hvpy`` in development mode, this then means that changes in the code are immediately reflected in the installed version.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Building Documentation
----------------------

Todo: add documentation for building documentation

> """

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

Installing ``hvpy``
-------------------

> If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_, then we recommend starting by installing the `Anaconda Distribution <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_. This works on all platforms (linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to Python and/or do not have familiarity with `Python virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`__, then we recommend starting by installing the `mini-forge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#miniforge3>`__.
This works on all platforms (linux, Mac, Windows) and installs a full-featured Python environment in your user directory without requiring root privileges.
```

Using pip
---------

> .. warning::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. warning::
```

>     Users of the Anaconda Python distribution should follow the instructions
>     for :ref:`anaconda_install`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Users of any conda distribution should follow the instructions for :ref:`conda_install`.
```

> To install ``hvpy`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`_, run::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install ``hvpy`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`__, run ::
```

    pip install hvpy

> .. _anaconda_install:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _conda_install:
```

Using Conda
-----------

> To install ``hvpy`` using `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest//>`_ run::
> 
>     conda install hvpy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install ``hvpy`` using `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`__ run ::

    conda install -c conda-forge hvpy
```

> Requirements

Reviewer: I am not sure if this is useful information?

Author: Can you tell me what is missing? Or do we need this for a PyPI package?

Reviewer: Yes, when you install a python package, it will install its dependencies

------------

``hvpy`` has the following requirements:

- `requests <https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ >=2.27.0 or higher
- `pydantic <https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/>`_ >=1.9.1 or higher

Obtaining the Source Packages
-----------------------------

Source Packages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The latest stable source package for ``hvpy`` can be `downloaded here
> <https://pypi.org/project/hvpy>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest stable source package for ``hvpy`` can be `downloaded here <https://pypi.org/project/hvpy>`_.
```

Development Repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The latest development version of ``hvpy`` can be cloned from GitHub
> using this command::
> 
>    git clone git@github.com:Helioviewer-Project/python-api.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest development version of ``hvpy`` can be cloned from `GitHub <https://github.com/Helioviewer-Project/python-api/>`__ ::

   git clone git@github.com:Helioviewer-Project/python-api.git
```

Building and Installing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To build and install ``hvpy`` (from the root of the source tree)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build and install ``hvpy`` (from the root of the source tree) ::
```

    pip install -e .

> which installs ``hvpy`` in develop mode -- this then means that
> changes in the code are immediately reflected in the installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which installs ``hvpy`` in development mode, this then means that changes in the code are immediately reflected in the installed version.
```

Building Documentation
----------------------

> Todo: add documentation for building documentation

Reviewer: Just ask them to use tox?

Author: sure.
